
Brandon Knieriem

San Francisco Bay Area, CA 95816
Phone: (860) 884-0462
E-Mail: brandonknieriem26@gmail.com

Links

            bknieriem.com

            linkedin.com/in/brandonknieriem

            github.com/bknie1

Professional Summary

Enthusiastic full stack software engineer skilled at technical leadership, the software development lifecycle, design, and user experience research.

Skills

HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, ES6+
React, Redux
Visual Basic, C#, Python, Java, C/C++
Node.js, Express.js, Embedded JS
ASP.NET, VB.NET
MongoDB, NoSQL, SQL
Selenium, Backstop.js, nUnit
Adobe XD and Creative Cloud
Unity SDK, Virtual Reality

RESTful routing
Promise lifecycle
APIs
Schema and object model architecture
Product development
Technical writing
Design and UX process maturity
Agile project management
Mentorship

Work History

June 2018 to March 2020
AthleteReg Easthampton, MA
Full Stack Software Engineer    

Collaborated on all stages of systems development lifecycle, from requirements gathering to production releases.
Designed, prototyped, implemented, and tested dozens of director and participant features for duration of two-year, mobile first, redesign initiative for athletereg.com and its portals (e.g. BikeReg).
Created style guide, style sheet, snippets, feature designs, and prototypes.
Wrote over 70 automated feature tests for style regressions and web driver tests.
Collaborated with developers and performance engineers to enhance supportability and identify performance bottlenecks.
Mentored newer engineer on front end implementation and best practices.
Led design and UX maturity for company; created new policies and procedures based on best practices to achieve iterative, human-centered design.
Gathered and defined customer requirements to develop clear specifications for creating well-organized project plans.
Evaluated project requirements and specifications and developed software applications that surpassed client expectations.
Discussed project progress with stakeholders, collected feedback on different stages and directly addressed concerns.
Translated technical concepts and information into terms all parties could easily comprehend.
Contributed ideas and suggestions in team meetings with developers and stakeholders and delivered updates on deadlines, designs and enhancements.
Walked internal staff through troubleshooting steps to resolve common software issues.

October 2017 to January 2018
Acuity Brands Lighting New Haven, CT
Software Engineer Intern    

Sustained portal for commercial smart lighting control.
Developed new Virtual WallPod WiX Toolset installer and integrated into SensorView package process using MSBuild.
Supported software engineering projects in Agile work environment.
Collaborated effectively with members of software development team and personnel in other departments.
Partnered with company mentor to learn best practices in software design.
Prepared and submitted report and other documentation to assist development team members with future installer projects.

September 2016 to September 2017
University Of New Haven West Haven, CT
Computer Science Teaching Assistant    

Supported student learning objectives through personalized and small group assistance.
Organized and guided activities for students, including group study sessions, one-on-one tutoring sessions and collaborative exercises.
Tutored struggling students individually and in small groups to reinforce learning concepts.
Supported classroom activities, including tutoring, grading homework and reviewing exams.
Coordinated Project Lead the Way professional engineering development for elementary and secondary school teachers.

September 2016 to May 2017
ASSA ABLOY Door Group LLC West Haven, CT
PLC Software Engineer Intern    

Worked with team of interdisciplinary engineers to design and develop Modicon PLC assembly line solution that will mitigate $500,000 in scrap loss each fiscal year
Collaborated with stakeholders to derive user requirements and create specifications
Programmed embedded software logic using function block diagrams and structured text using Unity Pro
Constructed ergonomic work bench for assembly line operators

June 2015 to September 2017
UNHcFREG West Haven, CT
Computer Science Research Assistant    

Researched information regarding digital security to assist professors with academic pursuits.
Supported department members with administrative, research and academic assistance.
Led Artifact Genome Project; NSA funded forensic artifact database.
Collected, tested and analyzed more than 500 forensically interesting digital artifacts.
Managed databases and input data to update records.
Published research on use of default passwords in database management systems.
Supervised undergraduate students working on research projects.
Independently developed Symmetrics; educational security game used to teach dozens of high school students in NSA funded cyber camp.

Education

May 2019 International Quality Institute 
UXQB Certified Professional For Usability And UX (CPUX-F) Design And Visual Communications 

January 2018 University of New Haven West Haven, CT
Master of Science Computer Science 

December 2016 University of New Haven West Haven, CT
Master of Science Criminal Justice 

May 2013 Eastern Connecticut State University Willimantic, CT
Bachelor of Arts Sociology 
